<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="CHAPTER_IX"/>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IX</span>.</h2>
			<h3>Has God Forgotten Shocky?</h3>
			<p>“Pap wants to know ef you would spend to-morry and Sunday at our house?” said one of Squire Hawkins’s girls, on the very next evening, which was Friday. The old Squire was thoughtful enough to remember that Ralph would not find it very pleasant “boarding out” all the time he was entitled to spend at Pete Jones’s. For in view of the fact that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pete Jones sent seven children to the school, the “master” in Flat Creek district was bound to spend two weeks in that comfortable place, sleeping in a preoccupied bed, in the “furdest corner,” with insufficient cover, under an insufficient roof, and eating floating islands of salt pork fished out of oceans of hot lard. Ralph was not slow to accept the relief offered by the hospitable justice of the peace, whose principal business seemed to be the adjustment of the pieces of which he was composed. And as Shocky traveled the same road, Ralph took advantage of the opportunity to talk with him. The master could not dismiss Hannah wholly from his mind. He would at least read the mystery of her life, if Shocky could be prevailed on to furnish the clue.</p>
			<p>“Poor old tree!” said Shocky, pointing to a crooked and gnarled elm standing by itself in the middle of a field. For when the elm, naturally the most graceful of trees, once gets a “bad set,” it can grow to be the most deformed. This solitary tree had not a single straight limb.</p>
			<p>“Why do you say ‘poor old tree’?” asked Ralph.</p>
			<p>“ ’Cause it’s lonesome. All its old friends is dead and chopped down, and there’s their stumps a-standin’ jes like grave-stones. It <i>must</i> be lonesome. Some folks says it don’t feel, but I think it does. Everything seems to think and feel. See it nodding its head to them other trees in the woods? and a-wantin’ to shake hands! But it can’t move. I think that tree must a growed in the night.”</p>
			<p>“Why, Shocky?”</p>
			<p>“ ’Cause it’s so crooked,” and Shocky laughed at his own conceit; “must a growed when they was no light so as it could see how to grow.”</p>
			<p>And then they walked on in silence a minute. Presently Shocky began looking up into Ralph’s eyes to get a smile. “I guess that tree feels just like me. Don’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Why, how do you feel?”</p>
			<p>“Kind o’ bad and lonesome, and like as if I wanted to die, you know. Felt that way ever sence they put my father into the graveyard, and sent my mother to the poor-house and Hanner to ole Miss Means’s. What kind of a place is a poor-house? Is it a poorer place than Means’s? I wish I was dead and one of them clouds was a-carryin’ me and Hanner and mother up to where father’s gone, you know! I wonder if God forgets all about poor folks when their father dies and their mother gits into the poor-house? Do you think He does? Seems so to me. Maybe God lost track of my father when he come away from England and crossed over the sea. Don’t nobody on Flat Creek keer fer God, and I guess God don’t keer fer Flat Creek. But I would, though, ef he’d git my mother out of the poor-house and git Hanner away from Means’s, and let me kiss my mother every night, you know, and sleep on my Hanner’s arm, jes like I used to afore father died, you see.”</p>
			<p>Ralph wanted to speak, but he couldn’t. And so Shocky, with his eyes looking straight ahead, and as if forgetting Ralph’s presence, told over the thoughts that he had often talked over to the fence-rails and the trees. “It was real good in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pearson to take me, wasn’t it? Else I’d a been bound out tell I was twenty-one, maybe, to some mean man like Ole Means. And I a’n’t but seven. And it would take me fourteen years to git twenty-one, and I never could live with my mother again after Hanner gets done her time. ’Cause, you see, Hanner’ll be through in three more year, and I’ll be ten and able to work, and we’ll git a little place about as big as Granny Sanders’s, and⁠—”</p>
			<p>Ralph did not hear another word of what Shocky said that afternoon. For there, right before them, was Granny Sanders’s log-cabin, with its row of lofty sunflower stalks, now dead and dry, in front, with its rain-water barrel by the side of the low door, and its ash-barrel by the fence. In this cabin lived alone the old and shriveled hag whose hideousness gave her a reputation for almost supernatural knowledge. She was at once doctress and newspaper. She collected and disseminated medicinal herbs and personal gossip. She was in every regard indispensable to the intellectual life of the neighborhood. In the matter of her medical skill we cannot express an opinion, for her “yarbs” are not to be found in the pharmacopoeia of science.</p>
			<p>What took Ralph’s breath was to find <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Small’s fine, faultless horse standing at the door. What did Henry Small want to visit this old quack for?</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
