<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="CHAPTER_XVIII"/>Chapter XVIII.</h2>
			<h3>Odds and Ends.</h3>
			<p>The Spring-in-rock, or, as it was sometimes, by a curious perversion, called, the “rock-in-spring,” was a spring running out of a cave-like fissure in a high limestone cliff. Here the old man sheltered himself on that dreary Christmas evening, until Bud brought his roan colt to the top of the cliff above, and he and Ralph helped the old man up the cliff and into the saddle. Ralph went back to bed, but Bud, who was only too eager to put in his best licks, walked by the side of old John Pearson the six miles over to Buckeye Run, and at last, after eleven o’clock, he deposited him in a hollow sycamore by the road, there to wait the coming of the mail-wagon that would carry him into Jackson County.</p>
			<p>“Good-by,” said the basket-maker, as Bud mounted the colt to return. “Ef I’m wanted jest send me word, and I’ll make a forrard movement any time. I don’t like this ’ere thing of running off in the night-time. But I reckon General Winfield Scott would a ordered a retreat ef he’d a been in my shoes. I’m lots obleeged to you. Akordin’ to my tell, we’re all of us selfish in everything; but I’ll be dog-on’d ef I don’t believe you and one or two more is exceptions.”</p>
			<p>Whether it was that the fact that Pete Jones had got consid’able shuck up demoralized his followers, or whether it was that the old man’s flight was suspected, the mob did not turn out in very great force, and the tarring was postponed indefinitely, for by the time they came together it became known somehow that the man with a wooden leg had outrun them all. But the escape of one devoted victim did not mollify the feelings of the people toward the next one.</p>
			<p>By the time Bud returned his arm was very painful, and the next day he went under Dr. Small’s treatment to reduce the fracture. Whatever suspicions Bud might have of Pete Jones, he was not afflicted with Ralph’s dread of the silent young doctor. And if there was anything Small admired it was physical strength and courage. Small wanted Bud on his side, and least of all did he want him to be Ralph’s champion. So that the silent, cool, and skillful doctor went to work to make an impression on Bud Means.</p>
			<p>Other influences were at work upon him also. Mrs. Means volleyed and thundered in her usual style about his “takin’ up with a one-legged thief, and runnin’ arter that master that was a mighty suspicious kind of a customer, akordin’ to her tell. She’d allers said so. Ef she’d a been consulted he wouldn’t a been hired. He warn’t fit company fer nobody.”</p>
			<p>And old Jack Means ’lowed Bud must want to have <i>their</i> barns burnt like some other folkses had been. Fer his part, he had sense enough to know they was some people as it wouldn’t do to set a body’s self agin. And as fer him, he didn’t butt his brains out agin a buckeye-tree. Not when he was sober. And so they managed, during Bud’s confinement to the house, to keep him well supplied with all the ordinary discomforts of life.</p>
			<p>But one visit from Martha Hawkins, ten words of kindly inquiry from her, and the remark that his broken arm reminded her of something she had seen at the East and something somebody said the time she was to Bosting, were enough to repay the champion a thousand fold for all that he suffered. Indeed, that visit, and the recollection of Ralph’s saying that Jesus Christ was a sort of a Flat Creeker himself, were manna in the wilderness to Bud.</p>
			<p>Poor Shocky was sick. The excitement had been too much for him, and though his fever was very slight it was enough to produce just a little delirium. Either Ralph or Miss Martha was generally at the cabin.</p>
			<p>“They’re coming,” said Shocky to Ralph, “they’re coming. Pete Jones is a-going to bind me out for a hundred years. I wish Hanner would hold me so’s he couldn’t. God’s forgot all about us here in Flat Creek, and there’s nobody to help it.”</p>
			<p>And he shivered at every sudden sound. He was never free from this delirious fright except when the master held him tight in his arms. He staggered around the floor, the very shadow of Shocky, and was so terrified by the approach of darkness that Ralph staid in the cabin on Wednesday night and Miss Hawkins staid on Thursday night. On Friday, Bud sent a note to Ralph, askin him to come and see him.</p>
			<p>“You see, Mr. Hartsook, I ha’n’t forgot what was said about puttin’ in our best licks for Jesus Christ. I’ve been a-trying to read some about him while I set here. And I read where he said somethin about doing fer the least of his brethren being as the same like as if it was done fer Jesus Christ his-self. Now there’s Shocky. I reckon, p’r’aps, as anybody is a little brother of Jesus Christ, it is that Shocky. Pete Jones and his brother Bill is determined to have him back there to-morry. Bekase you see, Pete’s one of the County Commissioners and to-morry’s the day that they bind out. He wants to bind out that boy jes’ to spite ole Pearson and you and me. You see, the ole woman’s been helped by the neighbors, and he’ll claim Shocky to be a pauper, and they a’n’t no human soul here as dares to do a thing con<i>tra</i>ry to Pete. Couldn’t you git him over to Lewisburg? I’ll lend you my roan colt.”</p>
			<p>Ralph thought a minute. He dared not take Shocky to the uncle’s where he found his only home. But there was Miss Nancy Sawyer, the old maid who was everybody’s blessing. He could ask her to keep him. And, at any rate, he would save Shocky somehow.</p>
			<p>As he went out in the dusk, he met Hannah in the lane.</p>
			<hr style="width: 65%;"/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
